docs/index.md, before:

# UI-Plugins-Client Documentation


## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Plugin Slots](#plugin-slots)
- [Plugin Slots Reference](#plugin-slots-reference)
- [The JS Library](#the-js-library)
- [Writing a new BriteCore Plugin](#writing-a-new-britecore-plugin)
- [References](#references)


## Overview

UI Plugins allow you to add your own functionality to BriteCore without having to
introduce any changes into BriteCore's codebase. To do so, you need to:

1. Find a **Plugin Slot** that supports your functionality.
2. Write a Plugin using the JavaScript library provided here.
3. Register such a Plugin using your carrier's
   [BriteUIPlugins](https://github.com/IntuitiveWebSolutions/BriteUIPlugins) instance.

Keep reading this document in order to get more details on the steps above.


## Plugin Slots

**Plugin Slots** are pre-defined sections of the BriteCore's UI where third-parties can connect
their plugins.

For example, BriteCore provides a plugin slot called `britequote:risk-edit:button-row`,
which lets users add custom action buttons into the quoting form. The screenshot below
highlights the slot itself as well as the hidden iframe where your plugin code is going
to be loaded into:

![](assets/plugins-1.png)

Each Plugin Slot type may have instances spread in multiple spots in the UI and the standard format
for naming is `{product}:{page}:{slot-type}`. For example, the `button-row` slot could be
available in different places across the system:

- `britequote:risk-edit:button-row`
- `britelines:risk-edit:button-row`
- `britedocs:edit-form:button-row`

This way, when connecting your plugin to BriteCore you have to specify to which specific
Plugin Slot instance you want to connect.

Each plugin slot can be placed in multiple locations on a given page. The plugin slot
**location** property controls in which part of the page a plugin slot should be
available. For instance, the `britequote:risk-edit:button-row` plugin slot in the image
above is placed in the `sidebar` **location** of the quoting form.


## Plugin Slots Reference

BriteCore UI offers slots throughout its UI where third party developers can plug their
extensions in.


### button-row

The `button-row` slot allows you to plug in action buttons on various pages. The slot
is going to render the buttons that the plugin requested during its initialization and
will call the plugin callbacks whenever needed.

The image bellow shows the slot with an action button on it:

![](assets/plugin-slots-1.png)


#### Details
- **Slot type:** `button-row`.
- **Slot instances in the UI:** `britequote:risk-edit:button-row`.
- **Slot locations:**
  - **`sidebar`**: when using this location, the plugin will be rendered in the sidebar
  of the quoting form..
  - **`bottom-row`**: when using this location, the plugin will be rendered in the bottom
  of the quoting form.
- **Interface:** requires an object like this on initialization:

```js
{
  buttons: [{
    text: 'Capitalize',
    callback: capitalizeFields
  }]
}
```

The callback function must be defined in your plugin file and it will be called whenever
the button is clicked.


#### britequote:risk-edit:button-row

The `button-row` slot type allows developers to write plugins to read data from a page,
process this data and send the results back to the page.

Such buttons can get the input data in a `context` object and do any
computations, third party services lookups, validations, etc. As a result, they can emit
events back to BriteCore UI with new data. Then, the latter can apply the changes
on the data used by the page.

The `button-row` slot type is currently available in two locations:

- In the **`sidebar`** next to quoting forms: it reads data from a form, pass it to the plugin
which emits an `update-risk` event back with a [JSON Patch](http://jsonpatch.com/) object
specifying which fields in the form should be updated.
- In the **`bottom-row`** of the first page: it allows to create new risk instances.
It gets data from the page, pass it to the plugin, which emits `create-and-update-risk` event.

  In the `context` object, the plugin receives:

  - **`riskTypes`**: an array of all available Risk Types. Each has its `id`, `label`, `name`
  and `parentRiskTypeId`.
  - **`rootRiskQuote`**: object which holds all information about the Root Quote,
  such as `risk_state` object, `risk_type_state` object and all child quote objects. 
  
  The `create-and-update-risk` event receives an array of objects each of which contains data
  that is required to creates new risk:
  
  - **`parentRiskQuote`**: Risk Quote object that is parent to the new risk to be created.
  - **`riskType`**: Risk Type object which describes of which type new risk to be created.
  - **`jsonPatch`**: object specifying which fields should be updated, and a data to be
  filled in the fields of the newly created risk.

Check out the [use case section](#use-case-the-capitalizer-plugin) for more information on
how to integrate your plugin with this slot.


## The JS Library

BriteCore provides a JavaScript library that you can use to build your plugins.

In order to use it, add this to your plugin HTML file:

```html
<script src="https://d1zol2vqugn1g2.cloudfront.net/britecore-ui-plugins.js"></script>
```

And then you'll be able to use the `BriteCorePlugin` helper so that your plugin can
communicate with BriteCore:

```js
  let p = new BriteCorePlugin()
  p.initialize({
    'slot-name': slotInput
  })
```

The `slotInput` object will vary depending on your need and on the Plugin Slot you want
to connect to. For example, let's say that you want to connect to the `button-row` slot
and send it a single button:

```js
  let p = new BriteCorePlugin()
  p.initialize({
    'button-row': {
      buttons: [{
        text: 'Lookup',
        callback: lookupDetails
      }]
    }
  })
```

The library source code can be found [here](https://github.com/IntuitiveWebSolutions/UI-Plugins-Client/blob/master/src/index.js).

## Writing a new BriteCore Plugin

Writing a new plugin will depend a lot on which type of plugin you want to create. First of
all, there must be an existent [plugin slot](#plugin-slots-reference) that matches these
requirements:

1. There must be a slot instance in the UI spot where you want load your plugin.
2. The slot must allow for the behavior you want your plugin to have.


If you've found a proper slot then you'll have to follow these steps:

1. Creating an HTML file for the plugin code.
2. Uploading the Plugin file and its configuration to a
   [BriteUIPlugins](https://github.com/IntuitiveWebSolutions/BriteUIPlugins) instance.

In order to understand each of the steps, let's dive into an use case: a plugin to add an
action button to capitalize a couple fields in the Quoting form.


### Use case: the Capitalizer plugin

BriteCore UI already provides a slot that allows a third party plugin to render an action button
to execute actions on a quoting form: the [`button-row` slot](#button-row). Now all you have to
do is to write a plugin that follows the contract defined by that slot.


#### 1. Creating the plugin HTML file

BriteCore provides [a simple JS library](#the-js-library) to allow for the creation of third-party
plugins and we are going to use it for our example.

The contract that a plugin has to implement in order to connect to the
[`button-row`](#button-row) slot is quite simple. All you need is to provide a label for
the button and a callback function capable of reading the form fields from a `context`
object and send a JSON Patch object with the changes you want to make to the form data.

Once you include the JS library in your plugin HTML file, you'll be able to use the
`BriteCorePlugin` helper class to connect your plugin to BriteCore via its `initialize`
method.

This is how the Capitalizer plugin would look like:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lodash.js/4.17.11/lodash.js"></script>
    <script src="https://d1zol2vqugn1g2.cloudfront.net/britecore-ui-plugins.js"></script>

    <script>
      function capitalizeFields (context) {
        let fa = context.field_answers
        const jsonPatch = [
          {op: 'replace', path: '/field_answers/make', value: _.capitalize(fa.make)},
          {op: 'replace', path: '/field_answers/model', value: _.capitalize(fa.model)},
        ]
        this.emit('update-risk', jsonPatch)
      }

      let p = new BriteCorePlugin()
      p.initialize({
        'button-row': {
          buttons: [{
            text: 'Capitalize',
            callback: capitalizeFields
          }]
        }
      })
    </script>
  </head>
</html>
```

Notice that we are initializing the plugin with an object where the keys are the slots that
our plugin needs to interact with and the values are the objects expected during the slot
initialization.

We're just following the specifications from the [button-row](#button-row) contract,
providing an array of objects containing a label and the callback function to handle
the form data and send the JSON Patch object back.

Under the hood, the `BriteCorePlugin` object will start the connection to the plugin slot
and, once that is done, it will emit an initialization event to the slot, sending along the
object with the buttons it wants to be rendered. The slot will be waiting for such an event
and will render the buttons wherever it is placed.


#### 2. Uploading your Plugin to BriteUIPlugins

[BriteUIPlugins](https://github.com/IntuitiveWebSolutions/BriteUIPlugins) is a service
responsible for the registration, configuration and API for third-party plugins and your
new plugin has to be uploaded there in order to work in BriteCore.

Go to your carrier's BriteUIPlugins Django admin UI and add a new **Plugin** instance with
the following data:

- **Name**: `Capitalizer`.
- **Base URL**: leave empty and the correct URL will be automatically set.

Add a new **Plugin Slot Location** instance::

- **Type**: `sidebar`.

Then, add a new **Plugin Slot** instance:

- **Plugin**: select `Capitalizer`.
- **Slot name**: `britequote:risk-edit:button-row`.
- **Location**: `sidebar`.
- **Plugin file**: upload the plugin HTML file.

That's it, now if you go to the Quoting form, you should be able to interact with the
new button there:

![](assets/examples-1.png)

Commit message:

Updated description of update-risk event.

docs/index.md, after:

# UI-Plugins-Client Documentation


## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Plugin Slots](#plugin-slots)
- [Plugin Slots Reference](#plugin-slots-reference)
- [The JS Library](#the-js-library)
- [Writing a new BriteCore Plugin](#writing-a-new-britecore-plugin)
- [References](#references)


## Overview

UI Plugins allow you to add your own functionality to BriteCore without having to
introduce any changes into BriteCore's codebase. To do so, you need to:

1. Find a **Plugin Slot** that supports your functionality.
2. Write a Plugin using the JavaScript library provided here.
3. Register such a Plugin using your carrier's
   [BriteUIPlugins](https://github.com/IntuitiveWebSolutions/BriteUIPlugins) instance.

Keep reading this document in order to get more details on the steps above.


## Plugin Slots

**Plugin Slots** are pre-defined sections of the BriteCore's UI where third-parties can connect
their plugins.

For example, BriteCore provides a plugin slot called `britequote:risk-edit:button-row`,
which lets users add custom action buttons into the quoting form. The screenshot below
highlights the slot itself as well as the hidden iframe where your plugin code is going
to be loaded into:

![](assets/plugins-1.png)

Each Plugin Slot type may have instances spread in multiple spots in the UI and the standard format
for naming is `{product}:{page}:{slot-type}`. For example, the `button-row` slot could be
available in different places across the system:

- `britequote:risk-edit:button-row`
- `britelines:risk-edit:button-row`
- `britedocs:edit-form:button-row`

This way, when connecting your plugin to BriteCore you have to specify to which specific
Plugin Slot instance you want to connect.

Each plugin slot can be placed in multiple locations on a given page. The plugin slot
**location** property controls in which part of the page a plugin slot should be
available. For instance, the `britequote:risk-edit:button-row` plugin slot in the image
above is placed in the `sidebar` **location** of the quoting form.


## Plugin Slots Reference

BriteCore UI offers slots throughout its UI where third party developers can plug their
extensions in.


### button-row

The `button-row` slot allows you to plug in action buttons on various pages. The slot
is going to render the buttons that the plugin requested during its initialization and
will call the plugin callbacks whenever needed.

The image bellow shows the slot with an action button on it:

![](assets/plugin-slots-1.png)


#### Details
- **Slot type:** `button-row`.
- **Slot instances in the UI:** `britequote:risk-edit:button-row`.
- **Slot locations:**
  - **`sidebar`**: when using this location, the plugin will be rendered in the sidebar
  of the quoting form..
  - **`bottom-row`**: when using this location, the plugin will be rendered in the bottom
  of the quoting form.
- **Interface:** requires an object like this on initialization:

```js
{
  buttons: [{
    text: 'Capitalize',
    callback: capitalizeFields
  }]
}
```

The callback function must be defined in your plugin file and it will be called whenever
the button is clicked.


#### britequote:risk-edit:button-row

The `button-row` slot type allows developers to write plugins to read data from a page,
process this data and send the results back to the page.

Such buttons can get the input data in a `context` object and do any
computations, third party services lookups, validations, etc. As a result, they can emit
events back to BriteCore UI with new data. Then, the latter can apply the changes
on the data used by the page.

The `button-row` slot type is currently available in two locations:

- In the **`sidebar`** next to quoting forms: it reads data from a form, pass it to the plugin
which emits an `update-risk` event back with a [JSON Patch](http://jsonpatch.com/) object
specifying which fields in the form should be updated.

  In the `context` object from BriteCore UI the plugin receives:

  - **`riskState`**: Is an object which describes currently editing risk. It contains
  information about Fields and Items along with other information about this risk.
  - **`quote`**: Is an object which holds general information about currently editing quote.
  Along with other information it includes `quote_number`, `product_name` and `root_risk_quote_id`.
  
  The `update-risk` event receives `jsonPatch` object:
  
  - **`jsonPatch`**: Is an object specifying which fields of the currently editing `riskState`
  should be updated, and a data to be filled in these fields.
  
- In the **`bottom-row`** of the first page: it allows to create new risk instances.
It gets data from the page, pass it to the plugin, which emits `create-and-update-risk` event.

  In the `context` object from BriteCore UI the plugin receives:

  - **`riskTypes`**: Is an array of all available Risk Types. Each has its `id`, `label`, `name`
  and `parentRiskTypeId`.
  - **`rootRiskQuote`**: Risk Quote object combines information about Risk in a Quote and contains data
  such as `riskState` object, `riskTypeState` object and all child Risk Quote objects. Root Risk Quote here
  represents main Risk Quote object.
  
  The `create-and-update-risk` event receives an array of objects each of which contains data
  that is required to creates new risk:
  
  - **`parentRiskQuote`**: Risk Quote object which is parent to the new risk to be created.
  - **`riskType`**: Risk Type object which describes of which type new risk to be created.
  - **`jsonPatch`**: object specifying which fields should be updated, and a data to be
  filled in the fields of the newly created risk.

Check out the [use case section](#use-case-the-capitalizer-plugin) for more information on
how to integrate your plugin with this slot.


## The JS Library

BriteCore provides a JavaScript library that you can use to build your plugins.

In order to use it, add this to your plugin HTML file:

```html
<script src="https://d1zol2vqugn1g2.cloudfront.net/britecore-ui-plugins.js"></script>
```

And then you'll be able to use the `BriteCorePlugin` helper so that your plugin can
communicate with BriteCore:

```js
  let p = new BriteCorePlugin()
  p.initialize({
    'slot-name': slotInput
  })
```

The `slotInput` object will vary depending on your need and on the Plugin Slot you want
to connect to. For example, let's say that you want to connect to the `button-row` slot
and send it a single button:

```js
  let p = new BriteCorePlugin()
  p.initialize({
    'button-row': {
      buttons: [{
        text: 'Lookup',
        callback: lookupDetails
      }]
    }
  })
```

The library source code can be found [here](https://github.com/IntuitiveWebSolutions/UI-Plugins-Client/blob/master/src/index.js).

## Writing a new BriteCore Plugin

Writing a new plugin will depend a lot on which type of plugin you want to create. First of
all, there must be an existent [plugin slot](#plugin-slots-reference) that matches these
requirements:

1. There must be a slot instance in the UI spot where you want load your plugin.
2. The slot must allow for the behavior you want your plugin to have.


If you've found a proper slot then you'll have to follow these steps:

1. Creating an HTML file for the plugin code.
2. Uploading the Plugin file and its configuration to a
   [BriteUIPlugins](https://github.com/IntuitiveWebSolutions/BriteUIPlugins) instance.

In order to understand each of the steps, let's dive into an use case: a plugin to add an
action button to capitalize a couple fields in the Quoting form.


### Use case: the Capitalizer plugin

BriteCore UI already provides a slot that allows a third party plugin to render an action button
to execute actions on a quoting form: the [`button-row` slot](#button-row). Now all you have to
do is to write a plugin that follows the contract defined by that slot.


#### 1. Creating the plugin HTML file

BriteCore provides [a simple JS library](#the-js-library) to allow for the creation of third-party
plugins and we are going to use it for our example.

The contract that a plugin has to implement in order to connect to the
[`button-row`](#button-row) slot is quite simple. All you need is to provide a label for
the button and a callback function capable of reading the form fields from a `context`
object and send a JSON Patch object with the changes you want to make to the form data.

Once you include the JS library in your plugin HTML file, you'll be able to use the
`BriteCorePlugin` helper class to connect your plugin to BriteCore via its `initialize`
method.

This is how the Capitalizer plugin would look like:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lodash.js/4.17.11/lodash.js"></script>
    <script src="https://d1zol2vqugn1g2.cloudfront.net/britecore-ui-plugins.js"></script>

    <script>
      function capitalizeFields (context) {
        let fa = context.field_answers
        const jsonPatch = [
          {op: 'replace', path: '/field_answers/make', value: _.capitalize(fa.make)},
          {op: 'replace', path: '/field_answers/model', value: _.capitalize(fa.model)},
        ]
        this.emit('update-risk', jsonPatch)
      }

      let p = new BriteCorePlugin()
      p.initialize({
        'button-row': {
          buttons: [{
            text: 'Capitalize',
            callback: capitalizeFields
          }]
        }
      })
    </script>
  </head>
</html>
```

Notice that we are initializing the plugin with an object where the keys are the slots that
our plugin needs to interact with and the values are the objects expected during the slot
initialization.

We're just following the specifications from the [button-row](#button-row) contract,
providing an array of objects containing a label and the callback function to handle
the form data and send the JSON Patch object back.

Under the hood, the `BriteCorePlugin` object will start the connection to the plugin slot
and, once that is done, it will emit an initialization event to the slot, sending along the
object with the buttons it wants to be rendered. The slot will be waiting for such an event
and will render the buttons wherever it is placed.


#### 2. Uploading your Plugin to BriteUIPlugins

[BriteUIPlugins](https://github.com/IntuitiveWebSolutions/BriteUIPlugins) is a service
responsible for the registration, configuration and API for third-party plugins and your
new plugin has to be uploaded there in order to work in BriteCore.

Go to your carrier's BriteUIPlugins Django admin UI and add a new **Plugin** instance with
the following data:

- **Name**: `Capitalizer`.
- **Base URL**: leave empty and the correct URL will be automatically set.

Add a new **Plugin Slot Location** instance::

- **Type**: `sidebar`.

Then, add a new **Plugin Slot** instance:

- **Plugin**: select `Capitalizer`.
- **Slot name**: `britequote:risk-edit:button-row`.
- **Location**: `sidebar`.
- **Plugin file**: upload the plugin HTML file.

That's it, now if you go to the Quoting form, you should be able to interact with the
new button there:

![](assets/examples-1.png)
